last night very late last night for you
and Washington DC in Ferguson two police
officers were shot and thank goodness
they're actually they're okay they're at
home now and they're out of the hospital
and especially you get beautiful speech
in Selma last Saturday about talking
about these very subjects about civil
rights that past the present the future
of civil rights is is that make it
especially painful for you when
something like this happens obviously we
don't yet know what happened our
thoughts and prayers are with the the
officers and their families and
thankfully as you said they're going to
be okay
what was beautiful about soma was
reminding ourselves that real social
change in this country so often has
happened because ordinary people are
willing in a non-violent fashion to make
their voices heard and you know I think
that what had been happening in Ferguson
was oppressive and objectionable and was
worthy of protest but there was no
excuse for criminal acts and and whoever
fired those shots shouldn't detract from
the issue they're criminals they need to
be arrested and then what we need to do
is to make sure that like-minded good
spirited people on both sides law
enforcement we have a terrifically tough
job and people who understandably don't
want to be stopped and harassed just
because of their race that we're able to
work together to try to come up with
some good answers and I think I put
together a task force after the original
Ferguson event had taken place that had
police officers police chiefs and some
of the organizers of protests both in
Ferguson and in New York young people
and they came up with some terrific
recommendations and found that there's a
lot of common ground and what we have to
make sure of is is that the folks who
disregard and disrespect the other side
people who resort to violence that
they're marginalized and they set us all
back they do yeah and and but but
they're not the majority and and in the
same way that you can't generalize about
police officers who
do an extraordinarily tough job
overwhelmingly they do it professionally
you can't generalize about protesters
who it turns out had some very
legitimate grievances the Justice
Department report showed that they were
being stopped African Americans were
being stopped disproportionately mainly
so the city could raise money even
though these were unjust and I can't
imagine how frustrating that must be I
mean I get crazy and I'm not joking
about part when I get like like parking
tickets and I feel are unjust and to be
put in a situation like that I do really
like my wheels are not turned properly
and I feel like they're just trying to
make money off of me it's they're not
obeying the spirit of the law oh and
what was happening in Ferguson was them
you had city government telling the
police department and that stop more
people we need to raise more money folks
would get stopped they'd get tickets
then they'd have to wait in line to pay
it take a day off work folks would lose
their jobs in some cases they were
thrown in jail because they didn't have
enough money for the fines and then
they'd get fined for that and you know
so there was a whole structure there
according to Justice Department report
that indicated both racism and just a
disregard for what law enforcement
supposed to do and as I said before I
said this at Summa it is not unique but
it's also not the norm and we've got a
we've got it constantly when we're
thinking about issues of racial progress
or any kind of issue recognize that
things that get better but there's still
more work to do and we shouldn't be
complacent about the very real existence
of problems out there but we shouldn't
despair and think nothing's changed if
people at goodwill which is the
overwhelming majority of Americans are
working together these are problems we
can solve the president United States is
here we'll be right back
hi I'm Jimmy Kimmel are you sad that the
video is over will subscribe to our
YouTube channel and you will never be
sad again ever